---
layout: post
title: Hope
permalink: hope
thumbnail: places-27-thumb.jpg
image-category: places
hero: places-27.jpg
---

When I think about people who are successful and those who are not so lucky I wonder what separates the two. Everyone dreams of being successful, it’s not like you just wake up one morning and say “hey, you know what, I want to be a lazy good for nothing failure for the rest of my life”, absolutely not. So if that’s not the case then there has to be something that separates the people who are successful and those who are not. I think I’ve come down to what it is, hope. Hope separates success from failure.

I feel like a lot of people when thinking in the context of getting things out of life hoping is a lot like wishing but for me it’s a state of mind. Hope to me means that you are, no matter the circumstances, seeing the positive from every situation. Every failure, every mistake, every set back are only things that are negative when you give up hope on your ability to be successful. Hope sets the people who persevere through the worst of the worst and come out the other side stronger than ever.

I’ve had my fair share of setbacks, failures, rejections, and mistakes in my life, I’ll be the first to admit that, but when those all happened I could still hold on to hope those negative experiences turned into powerful character building opportunities. When those negative things happened and I gave up hope the only thing that happened was more negative things. I really do believe our mindset determines our future, if we are positive we will have a positive future and if we are negative we will always be facing negativity. Self fulfilling prophecy comes to mind. There’s a reason why people stress positivity to recovering addicts and they often stress the fake it til you make it mentality. If you are perpetually negative and say I can’t you never will be able to break out of the mold but when you start having hope and believing that you can, that’s the moment your life changes forever.

It’s easy to give in to the negative and unproductive mindsets but those will always hold you back from accomplishing the things that we all deserve. Instead of focusing on what you don’t have focus on the things that you do, find the silver lining in all failures, and always no matter how harsh life gets hold onto hope. Hope separates the successful from the unfortunate. Hope brings us what we all deserve and are entitled to, happiness.
