---
layout: post
title: Positivity Breeds Positivity
permalink: positivity-breeds-positivity
thumbnail: places-53-thumb.jpg
image-category: places
hero: places-53.jpg
---



Remember that when you are cursing the Gods for your misfortune it may be entirely your fault. I’ve spent 27 years on this Earth and if there is one takeaway from all that time is that good things happen to positive people and bad things happen to negative people. It’s pretty easy blaming our misfortunes on magical deities or our fellow sentient beings that roam this Earth but often it starts with us. The concept of having things happen, good or bad, solely on the way in which you see the world can be incredibly difficult to grasp for some people. The reality though is that being positive or negative is a big deal when it comes to how your life plays out. While it’s not the only factor in having good or bad things happen it is a strong influencer.

To me it’s been more of a study of experience that I came to the realization that continuously letting things bother me and being extremely negative in my life was leading me to some pretty dark places mentally and socially. I wasn’t always a positive person, I didn’t always try and spin my bad luck in a positive manner but on the contrary I often spun things into a negative light. It wasn’t until I really started to understand why when I was negative the amount of negative things happening to me was exponentially greater than when I was being positive about a negative situation.

It’s really just simple psychology, think and tell yourself that you have horrible luck, nothing good happens to you, and you always make the worst decisions (whether or not it’s true) eventually you will believe all those things and start projecting those beliefs out into the world. Think that you are a winner, that the run of bad luck is only an opportunity to prevail, and that no matter what life throws at you you aren’t going to let it get you down and eventually you will project positivity into the universe around you. Now think about someone you know who is extremely negative and someone who is extremely positive, all of us know someone from both spectrums, and then think to yourself who you would rather spend your days with. It’s pretty easy, the obvious choice is the positive person that’s who you want to spend the time with. Now what typically happens is that negative people attract negative people and vice versa for positive people and that’s because we are attracted to people with our similar thought patterns. When a group of negative people all hang out it’s seldom that anything good ever comes from it.

When you look at your life instead of seeing things as how little you have or how shitty the roll of the dice was, think about the things that you have and the opportunities that are available to us right at our fingertips. Project negativity into the world and you will attract negativity, project positivity into the world and you will attract positivity. If you want to change your stars and your place in life because it’s unsatisfactory you need to start being positive about what you can change and that starts with changing your attitude from a negative one to a positive one. Once you start doing that the rest starts falling into place. Life is too short to be negative, we get one shot at this and we need to make it count, the best way of doing that is to be positive about the life you have no matter how rough you’ve got it because it can always be worse. In the coming days do an assessment on your thoughts throughout the day, if you have a negative thought find a way to make it a positive one. If you have a positive thought, hold on to that and build from it throughout your day. Focus on this concept and I guarantee you will have a happy and beautiful life.
